---
category: post
date: 2018-06-01 12:00 -0400
title: "Privacy Policy"
permalink: /privacy/
---

## Data Protection

The operators of this website take the protection of your personal data very seriously. We treat your personal data confidentially and according to the legal data protection regulations and this Privacy Policy.

The use of our website is usually possible without providing personal data. Personal data, such as names, addresses or e-mail addresses, are always provided on a voluntary basis if possible. Those data will not be passed on to third parties without your explicit permission.

However, we would like to point out that data transmissions via internet (e.g. e-mail communication) cannot be entirely secure and may have security vulnerabilities. A complete protection of personal details against unauthorised access by third parties is not possible.

## Cookies

This website partially uses so-called cookies. Cookies do not cause damages to your computer and do not contain viruses. Cookies allow us to make our offer more user-friendly, more efficient and more secure. Cookies are small text files, stored by your browser on your computer.

The most cookies that we use are so-called “session cookies”. They will be deleted automatically after the end of your visit. Other cookies remain on your terminal device. Those cookies enable us to recognise your browser on your next visit.

You can adjust your browser that way in order to be informed when cookies are placed, to individually allow cookies or to generally exclude cookies in certain cases as well as to activate the automatic deletion of cookies when closing the browser. The deactivation of cookies may impair the functionality of this website.

## List of Cookies

* _ga used by Google Analytics to distinguish users, expires in 2 years.
* _gid used by Google Analytics to distinguish users, expires in 24 hours.
* _gat used by Google Analytics to throttle the request rate, expires in 10 minutes.
* cookieconsent_status used by this website to remember your preference of dismissing the cookie consent banner, expires in 1 year.
* ga-disable- used by this website to remember your preference of opting out of being included analytics.
* __gads used by Google Adsense to deliver ads, expires in 2 years.
* 3rd party cookies sent from the Google domain doubleclick.net used by Google to deliver ads.

## Privacy Policy for the use of Google Analytics

This website uses Google Analytics, a website analysis service by Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway Mountain View, CA 94043, USA.

Google Analytics uses so-called “cookies”, text files that are stored on your computer to analyse your use of the website. The information generated by the cookie about your use of this website is usually sent to and stored at a Google server in the U.S.A.

You find more information concerning the treatment of user data by Google Analytics in Google’s Privacy Policy for Partners.

### Browser Plugin

You may prevent the installation of cookies by adjusting the settings of your browser; however, if you do so, you may be unable to use all features of this website. Further, you may prevent the collection of data generated by cookies (including your IP address) and related to the use of this websites as well as the processing of such data by Google by downloading and installing the plug-in under the following link: http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en

### Objection to Data Collection

You may prevent the collection of data by Google Analytics by clicking the following link. Doing so, an Opt-Out-Cookie will be placed which prevents future analytics data collection when visiting our website: Disable Google Analytics

### Processing of Order Data

We have concluded a contract with Google concerning the processing of order data and fully comply with the strict provisions of German Data Protection Authorities when using Google Analytics.

### IP anonymisation

We use the IP anonymisation feature of Google Analytics. Through this, your IP address will be shortened within the member states of the European Union or other contractual states of the Treaty on the European Economic Area. Only in exceptional cases your complete IP address will be transmitted to a server in the U.S.A. and shortened there. Commissioned by the operators of this website, Google will use this information to evaluate your use of the website, to compile reports on website activities for website operators and to provide other services related to website and internet activities. Google will not merge your IP address with any other data held by Google.

## Privacy Policy for the use of Google Adsense

This website uses Google AdSense, a Google Inc. service to embed commercial information. Provider of these services are Google Inc., 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway Mountain View, CA 94043, USA.

Google Adsense uses so-called “cookies”, text files that are stored on your computer to analyse the use of the website. Further, Google AdSense also uses so-called web beacons (invisible images). These web beacons help to process information, such as visitor traffic on this website.

The information generated by cookies and web beacons about your use of this website (including your IP address) and dispatch of advertising formats is sent to and stored at a Google server in the U.S.A. Google may also transfer this information to their contractual partners. However, Google will not associate your IP address with any other data stored at Google.

You may prevent the installation of cookies by adjusting the settings of your browser; however, if you do so, you may be unable to use all features of this website. By using this website you agree to the processing of the collected information by Google, according to the above mentioned purpose.

You find more information concerning the treatment of user data by Google Adsense in Google’s Privacy Policy for Partners.

## Privacy Policy for the use of cross-device Remarketing

Our websites use the functions of Google Analytics Remarketing in connection to the cross-device functions of Google AdWords and Google DoubleClick. Provider of these technologies are Google Inc. 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway Mountain View, CA 94043, USA.

This function enables to link the commercial target groups compiled by Google Analytics Remarketing with the cross-device functions of Google AdWords and Google DoubleClick. Thereby customized, interest-related commercials adapted for display on a terminal device (e.g. cell phone) according to the your previous usage and browsing behaviour can be also displayed on another of your terminal devices (e.g. PC, tablet).

If you have given the respective permission, Google will link the app browser history with your Google account for this purpose. Thereby the same customized commercials will be displayed on any terminal device on which you log-in to your Google account.

In order to support this function, Google Analytics collects Google-authenticated IDs of users, which are temporarily linked to our Google Analytics Data, to identify and to compile target groups for cross-device advertising.

You can permanently object to cross device remarketing/targeting by deactivating customised commercials in your Google account by following the below link: https://www.google.com/settings/ads/onweb/

Further information and data protection regulations you find in Google’s Privacy Policy under: http://www.google.com/policies/technologies/ads/

You find more information concerning the treatment of user data by Google Adsense in Google’s Privacy Policy for Partners.

## Privacy Policy for the use of the Amazon partner program

The operators of this website participate in the Amazon EU partner program. On our websites Amazon advertisements and links are embedded with which we are able to earn income by advertising cost refund. Therefore Amazon places cookies in order to trace the origin of the order. Thereby Amazon is able to recognise that you have clicked the link placed on our website. For further information concerning the use of data by Amazon please view the [Amazon Privacy Policy][amazon-privacy]. 

## SSL Encryption

For security reasons and to protect the transmission of confidential data, such as enquiries you sent to us as the provider, this website uses an SSL encryption. You recognise an encrypted transmission by the change of the address line of the browser from “http://” to “https://” and by the lock-symbol in your browser address line.

Connections to this site are only possible in an encrypted form.

If you have any questions regarding this Privacy Policy, please write to <a class="u-email" href="mailto:{{ site.adminemail }}">{{ site.adminemail }}.</a>

[amazon-privacy]: (http://www.amazon.de/gp/help/customer/display.html/ref=footer_privacy?ie=UTF8&nodeId=3312401)
