---
layout: post
title: "Heroku, Rails 5 and Bootstrap 4"
date: 2018-06-01 12:00 -0400
categories: heroku rails bootstrap
---

One ... um, challenge, yeah challenge, of hosting Rails is that short of going with a VPS (read: $$$) or self-hosting, there aren't many options for getting a RoR app built with current versions out to the world.  Most shared hosting sites are a few revs back, not only with Ruby but Rails as well.

Heroku is not.  It's actually very Rails-friendly, and for showing a prototype or a training environment, their free tier works pretty darn well.

Yeah, yeah, owned by Salesforce, which is part of the Oracle Family of Fine Products.  But the price ....

# Heroku Considerations

Re-typing all of Heroku's documentation and tutorials isn't the point of this exercise.  But there are a few things to keep in mind up front.

1.  Heroku accounts tie to an email address, and the deploy process is to push the master branch of your git repository.  Heroku will rebuild the app and its assets as if a post-push hook, but will *not* apply any data migrations.  You have to do them manually from the command line.
2.  Did I mention that there's a Heroku CLI utility that needs to be installed on your local machine?  Yeah, there is.  The utility creates a connection to Heroku through which you authenticate (fancy word for login) and then preform various adminstrivia for the app and site.  Such as db:migrate.  
3.  Add a logging facility to your Heroku environment.  You'll be glad you did when you forget something and the app just crashes.  Papertrail has worked well for me, ymmv.
4.  Because the free tier dyno will go to sleep after about 30 minutes of inactivity, there will be (often) times when your browser times out waiting for a response.  Just hit refresh.

# A Few Particulars, or Peculiars

1.  pg:push will ask for a password to the SOURCE (local) database.  This account defaults to the login name on the localhost.  It needs access to the administrative tables in the SOURCE database.

    Syntax:
    ```
    heroku pg:push overlord postgresql-dianthus-12345 -a arcanum-creek-16033
    ```
2. Make sure the Bootstrap links are in the application.html.erb file

    Add just before the </head> tag.
    ```
    <!-- BOOTSTRAP -->
    <link href="//maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/<version#>/css/bootstrap.min.css" rel="stylesheet">
    <script src="//maxcdn.bootstrapcdn.com/bootstrap/<version#>/js/bootstrap.min.js"> </script>
    ```
    where <version#> is what you're using, eg, `4.1.1`

    You also need the JS links just above the </body> tag.

    These do not seem to be needed except on Heroku.  Don't know why, yet.

3.  As mentioned above, if your deploy includes anything for `db:migrate`, you'll need to execute that manually.

